
Chicken Biryani Recipe
Chicken Biryani – a highly aromatic and well-seasoned one-pot dish originally from India that has a perfect balance of chicken meat, rice and veggies. It is way too good that it’ll appear regularly in your weekly menu.

Course: Main
Cuisine: Fusion
Servings: 
5-6 people
Calories: 168 kcal

Ingredients
Jerk Chicken Thighs
2 1/2 -3 pound chicken thighs (about 5-6)
1 1/2 teaspoon salt (adjust to taste)
1 teaspoon minced garlic
1 teaspoon minced ginger
1 teaspoon white pepper
½ teaspoon cumin spice
For a more flavorful chicken add more spices like curry, paprika, coriander, chill, (about 1/2 teaspoon each)
¼ -⅓ cup yogurt
Chicken Briyani
2-3 tablespoons cooking oil/butter/Ghee
1 Tablespoon minced garlic
2 teaspoons minced ginger
1 medium onion chopped

1 small jalapenos pepper , deseeded and chopped
1 bay leaf
1 teaspoon cumin spice
3-4 cardamon pods , cracked teaspoon
1 teaspoon curry spice
1-2 cinnamon stick
1 teaspoon chilli spice (optional)
1 teaspoon smoked paprika
½-1 teaspoon or more white/black pepper
1/3 -1/2 cup cashew (optional)
2 cups Basmati rice
1 red bell pepper , chopped
4 cups Liquid Broth or water, and/or coconut milk
1 ½ teaspoon salt or more adjust to taste
2 tablespoons or more cilantro (optional)
US Customary - Metric
y
Instructions
1.Wash chicken thighs, for faster cooking make a ½ ” slit into chicken thigh meat on either side of the chicken, then wipe with a paper towel. Season with salt (about 1½ teaspoons).
2.Add chicken to a bowl then add garlic, ginger, white pepper, cumin. Mix.
3.Then add yogurt thoroughly mix. Refrigerate until ready to use .When ready to use discard excess marinade from chicken .
4.Place chicken skin side up in a skillet / Dutch oven or oven safe pot/pan for about 3 minutes each, be very careful with the chicken, it shouldn’t burn. Remove from the pan and set aside.
5.Preheat Oven to 350 degrees F.
6.Add about 2 tablespoons oil or more followed by onions, bell pepper , garlic , and bay leaf. Sauté until soft but not golden, about 2-3 minutes. Then add cumin , coriander , curry , cardamon pods , cinnamon sticks, chill pepper, red bell pepper and cashews. Stir for another minute.
7.Next add all the remaining ingredients, rice , stock and salt to taste .Add chicken, bring to a boil.
8.Place in the oven in pre-heated oven uncovered . Cook for about 30- 35 minutes or until chicken is fully cooked.
9.Remove let it cool, garnish with cilantro, if desired and serve.